I'm Chris LeCroy,
I'm the engineering manager
for the streaming server.
I've been doing that
for about three years,
I guess.
I'm going to talk to you at a high level
about the QuickTime streaming server.
Some of the things I'll talk about are,
kind of explain what the servers do,
what they are.
I'll give you some status
on our latest version.
I'm also going to give you an overview
of some of the functionality and some of
the typical configurations of the server.
Which is something that's
in the documentation,
but it might be nice for me to get up
and actually talk about it a little bit.
I'll give a real high level overview
of some of the streaming protocols.
Which is important because it's
actually possible to write tools
around these protocols that
will interact and interoperate
completely with the streaming
server and the streaming client.
I'll also mention a couple of ways that
you can extend the streaming server.
Go through a few of the development
opportunities and then just kind of
talk about our general future direction.
So what are the QuickTime Streaming
Server and the Darwin Streaming Server?
It says three servers in one,
but actually it's more than three.
But the three major things
we do are video on demand,
which basically allows you to serve
stored content off of a hard drive.
It's a lot like a web
server serving static HTML,
except the server streams movies
instead of serving up HTML.
The server does live stream reflecting.
And what that means is that you've got
a broadcaster or some kind of an input
source sending media to the server.
And then the server reflects that
out to a massive number of clients,
thousands of clients.
We also do something we call
simulated live using our
playlist broadcaster feature.
And what that allows you to do is to
have stored content on the server and
have that broadcast kind of in a delayed
fashion as if it were a live broadcast.
It's really good for doing delayed
broadcasts obviously and also
for doing things like setting
up internet radio stations.
You can actually create playlists of
songs or of videos and play that out to
the server as if it were a live stream.
The server is completely standards based.
When we decided to get into
the streaming server business,
we kind of took a look around and
decided that we didn't need another,
a third proprietary format.
So we decided to go
completely with standards.
And we actually believe in it's standard.
Believe in it so much that Apple is
one of the founding members of the
Internet Streaming Media Alliance,
which is an organization whose
charter is basically to make sure
that MPEG-4 streaming and MPEG-4 in
general works in an interoperable
fashion between different vendors.
The server scales really well.
On a single processor machine,
we can do over 2,000 concurrent
off of disk movies or off of
disk connections or streams.
And we can do well over 3,000 when
it's reflected from a live broadcast.
That's on a single processor machine.
There are also ways to kind
of tie machines together and
do even larger broadcasts.
The Relay feature allows you to set up
a collection of machines so that one
relay can relay out to other relays,
which allows you to do instead
of maybe 2,000 clients,
you can have 10 machines
and do 20,000 clients.
and we of course support UDP.
UDP is, for those of you who don't know,
is kind of the sister
or the brother to TCP,
except that it's not reliable.
And that's the normal way
to stream media using RTP,
which is a standard protocol.
We also can tunnel over HTTP,
and the reason we do that is
is to allow streams to get through
firewalls that are not configured to
allow RTP traffic to come through.
So basically a request will
look just like an HTTP request
to a firewall or to a proxy.
And everything,
all the media can get through
without any trouble that way.
The IS people love us for doing that.
The QuickTime Streaming
Server and the Darwin Streaming
Server are also open sourced.
So a point of confusion for
a lot of people has been that
they're continually asking,
"What's QuickTime Streaming Server and
what's Darwin Streaming Server?
What's different about
these two?" And the answer,
especially as of the latest version,
is that there's absolutely
no difference whatsoever.
We simply use QuickTime Streaming
Server as the brand name for the
Mac OS X version of the server.
And we use Darwin Streaming
Server to refer to any other
platform that the server runs on,
and to the open source project.
So we build obviously for Mac OS X and
we ship a binary for that.
We also build binaries under
the Darwin name for Linux,
Solaris, FreeBSD, and Windows NT 2000.
And we actually build these things and
treat them as a first class citizen
in terms of being equal to Mac OS X.
We do test those versions of the server.
We do put effort into making
sure that they perform well.
So you can download the binaries
and you can be assured that it's
at least as good as Mac OS X.
Thank you.
In addition to that,
because we're open sourced,
developers have ported the
Darwin Streaming Server to
a wide variety of platforms.
Basically every major
platform you can think of.
It's been ported to Mac OS 9
by some people in Brazil.
It's been ported to SGI's iRix.
It's been ported to
Hewlett Packard's HPUX.
Compaq ported it to their
True64 operating system.
It's been ported to basically
every flavor of Linux in the world.
It's available on almost everything.
I think I heard something
about a BOS version,
but I'm not actually sure if
that's out or around right now.
And because it's open source, we...
Also make the source code available
to the public in kind of two forms.
You can download the source code for
any GM version just as a tarball.
So you've always got a copy of
the GM version of the source code.
In addition to that,
we actually do our development
in a public CVS repository.
So if you were to bop over to our
CVS repository right now and do an
update or a checkout from there,
you'd actually get code that's in
progress by the Apple engineers
and various Darwin developers.
It's a great way to help us out.
You can download that stuff.
And if you see a bug, fix it for us.
If there's been a bug,
we'd be happy to roll it into
the CVS repository for you.
So where are we at today?
probably all know that we just released
QuickTime Streaming Server 3.0 this week.
It's available for download
on the web as an installer,
and that can install on
Mac OS X desktop or Mac OS X server.
But it's actually already included
with Mac OS X server as one of the
standard services on that package,
or on that product.
And of course,
we've got all of the Darwin binaries
up there for download as well
for all the various platforms
that Apple actually builds on.
What's new in 3.0?
I'll give you a high-level
overview of each of these.
I'm going to go into detail
on each of these in a second.
Skip protection is a new feature.
It's actually not a feature.
It's more of a collection of
quality of service enhancements
that we've added to the server.
It's an ongoing process for
us to always improve quality.
We've added a web-based
administration to the server.
If you're familiar with
Streaming Server 2,
we had for Mac OS X a little Cocoa-based
app that did some limited administration.
It looked nice.
It was aquafied.
But for the other platforms,
configuration basically meant that
you needed to get over to the server,
tell it in, modify some text files,
stop the server or send
a SIGHUB to the server,
and hope you got everything right,
hope you didn't screw up the config file.
And we decided that that
was too complicated,
so we decided to do a
UI for all platforms.
We've strengthened the other features.
We've added authentication.
And by that I mean authentication
that happens when a client tries
to connect to the server and access
a movie that's been protected.
And we've also,
in conjunction with QuickTime 5,
added some APIs that allow you to do
live broadcasts and to do basically
encoding from an input source,
broadcast that out to a server.
So we support that,
and we support some of the
new features they added,
such as announce support.
I'll get into that in a second.
And broadcasting via reliable transport.
We've also done a couple of
API enhancements that I'll talk about,
too.
So skip protection.
If you guys were at the keynote,
you probably saw Avi do the demo where
he had two movies up side by side.
He pulled the plug, which was intended to
simulate packet loss.
The old 2.0 version
of the stream stopped,
and the 3.0 version just kept on going.
There are a couple of things that
we did that allowed that to happen.
So the first thing that we
do is we now do intelligent
retransmission of lost packets.
Basically,
the client is continually telling the
server which packets it got and lost,
and the server makes some decisions based
upon whether there's enough bandwidth,
whether the packet's really important,
or whether the client will
even be able to use it.
It may be too late to even retransmit.
So it does some intelligent
retransmission there.
In conjunction with that,
we actually do congestion
avoidance in our algorithms.
We don't just blindly retransmit things,
and the reason we do that is that if the
server's being notified of packet loss,
and we just start
retransmitting more data,
and it turns out that the packet
loss is caused because there's
not enough bandwidth or there's a
congested link somewhere on the net,
all we're going to do is
exasperate the problem.
So we try to be really smart
about what we actually retransmit.
In conjunction with this,
we do something we call over-buffering.
And what that is is
basically sending the media.
We send the media at
faster than real time.
And the reason we do that is
that typically you've got a
three-second buffer in the client,
and what over-buffering allows is
for us to stretch that buffer out,
and it gives us a lot more
time to perform retransmit.
So instead of performing retransmit
up in this little three-second buffer,
we may have up to 25
seconds to do a retransmit,
which gives us a lot of time to recover
from just temporary conditions on
the internet and things like that.
So over buffering is cool,
but you don't want to just like
send things as fast as you can.
We actually need to know how fast
of a connection each client has.
So we have something,
we've built some technologies into
the server that actually can detect
the available bandwidth for each
of the clients that are connected.
And we use that when we're
doing the over buffering.
In addition to that,
we've improved our thinning algorithms.
And what thinning is,
is there are situations where
There just isn't enough bandwidth
and somebody's asked to watch a
movie that maybe requires 44k but
their modem is only running at 40k.
So what thinning is,
is a mechanism where we actually
select packets based upon their
priority and just don't send those.
And the idea there is to decrease
the bandwidth of that stream so
that the client gets at least
some semblance of a usable stream.
In the past with 2.0,
the shifts when we were doing
thinning were pretty abrupt.
You'd see a movie,
it would look like crap.
We would thin,
it would immediately go to a slideshow.
If that didn't work,
we'd go down to audio.
And basically we've just kind of
smoothed that progression a little bit.
And skip protection is, like I said,
it's not a feature.
It's just our umbrella term for quality
of service enhancements to the server.
And the things we've added for
3.0 are just the beginning.
We plan to do quality of service
enhancements for every release
of the server moving forward.
An obvious goal is to get the
broadcast quality at some point.
And even beyond that,
better than broadcast quality.
There are some things we think
we can do with interactivity and
just really high quality video,
high resolution video that we're
going to be looking into over time.
It's going to take a long time,
obviously.
Next new feature is our
web-based administration.
And one of our goals with kind
of from the beginning with this
server is that we wanted to make
it extensible for developers and
we wanted it to be easy to extend.
So we kind of took that
philosophy to heart when we did
the web-based administration.
And the way this works is we implemented
it as basically a collection of HTML that
contains some tags in it and some
Perl scripts that know how to parse
those HTML files and read those tags,
make a request off to the
streaming server for data,
and kind of reformat the
HTML so that it looks like
normal HTML on the web browser.
We built kind of a mini
web server based on Pearl,
which is just a very simple
little web server for actually
talking to the web browsers.
The web browsers never talk
directly to the streaming server.
And as I said,
it's extensible just by replacing
some of the -- in simple cases,
just adding some additional
HTML with whatever tags.
In more complex cases,
if you've got some complicated
data that you need to parse,
then you might have to write a little
Pearl CGI that does the parsing for you.
And of course, it's secure.
The little mini web
server actually does SSL.
- And I probably have this upside down,
don't I?
Okay, and here's a screenshot.
I'm actually gonna demo.
I was gonna show you just a screenshot,
but I decided that a
demo might be better.
Just going to quickly show you a couple
of the features in the web-based admin.
So this is kind of the initial screen.
It's basically just a snapshot of
what's happening with the server.
Hopefully you guys can
all see that in the back.
If I had a lot of,
I could check my CPU load here,
I can see how many
bytes have been served,
I can see how much
bandwidth is going out.
Kind of a convenient thing.
Here are some of the
general settings here.
You navigate just by
moving through these tabs.
and you can view the logs in the admin.
Here's an error log, lots of errors.
And another thing we added is
UI for the Playlist Broadcaster.
If you guys are familiar with that,
you'll actually like this.
In the past,
you actually needed-- setting up
the playlist broadcaster on all
platforms really consisted of
modifying multiple text files and
people inevitably got it wrong.
And so we've added UI here.
Basically, you can create a new playlist.
Here are all the movies listed down
here that are in this playlist.
You can tell it how
you'd like it to play,
sequential, weighted random.
You can tell it to turn logging on,
things like that.
And then turning this on or off
is just a matter by clicking
the little play button here.
and the broadcast automatically
gets started up and automatically
starts talking to the server and
you've automatically got your
internet radio station or your
broadcast happening at that point.
I guess you guys hated the text files,
huh?
Announce support.
So like I mentioned,
QuickTime 5 has added,
they've made the broadcaster APIs public.
So in the past we had,
there was one broadcaster,
it was Sorenson,
and the way that worked is that
you would set up your broadcast,
plug your camera in,
you'd have the Sorenson
broadcaster generate an SDP file,
which is a file that had basically
a description of the session,
you would,
So, you have to take that file,
get access to the server that
you're going to broadcast to.
In a lot of cases,
you actually had to go in
and modify the SDP file,
which meant that you needed
to understand the SDP format.
After that,
you would start the broadcaster
up and typically it wouldn't
work the first time.
You'd look at your SDP file,
figure out what's going on.
Basically, it was a mess and we didn't
think it was easy enough.
So we decided we needed to automate that.
So we've added some support to the
broadcaster APIs to use standard RTSP and
to use the announce method in RTSP.
And what that means is that all you
need to do now is type in an IP address
on the broadcaster application.
Specify the name of the
broadcast and press start.
At that point what happens is the
broadcaster will send all of that
information that was originally
in the SDP over to the server.
The server will say,
first of all it will ask are
you okay to do this and actually
authenticate the broadcaster.
The reason for that is you don't
want to have anybody being able
to broadcast to your server.
Once it decides that the
authentication is okay,
it will let the broadcaster
know things are cool,
go ahead and send me over all
of the information that I need.
The broadcaster will start
broadcasting and you're done.
Basically it's type
in a couple of fields,
push a button, you're done.
In addition to the announced
support for broadcasters,
there was a problem with the original
broadcaster broadcast only on UDP.
And as I mentioned,
UDP is a non-reliable transport,
which means that packets can get lost.
So that's a minor problem when
you're a client watching a stream
and one or two packets get lost and
then everything's fine after that.
It's a major problem when a broadcaster
is sending data to a reflector and
it loses packets because then every
single client loses those packets.
So we decided we needed to
have a reliable transport.
And we decided to just go with TCP rather
than doing anything real complex.
The second problem with using TCP is that
the buffer sizes are typically too small.
So with reliable broadcast,
the broadcaster is actually
able to tell the server how
large it would like its buffer.
So it can tell the server.
I'd like a one-minute buffer.
And what that allows is for situations
where TCP gets into congestion problems
or maybe a little flow control problem,
it gives the broadcaster plenty
of time or the TCP stack plenty
of time to get caught up and make
sure that basically all the packets
get through and everybody's happy.
Which means that all of your clients
will receive a much better quality
stream in the case of packet loss
between the broadcaster and the server.
So those are the new features.
I'm going to talk about some of
the typical configurations that
you can put the server into.
The thing to note is that these are
not modes that the server goes into.
The server can be configured
to do any one of these or
all of them at the same time.
These are just different ways
the server can be operated.
We've got video on demand,
simulated live streaming,
and a more advanced
configuration is relay streaming.
Relay streaming.
So I'll go into those in more detail.
I actually have pictures
here for you guys to look at.
So probably the most typical
form of streaming is stored media
streaming or video on demand.
And this is actually, as I mentioned,
just like, or it's analogous to web
servers serving static HTML.
Basically, all you need to do is take
some hinted movie files,
drop them into a
directory on your server.
The client will make a request
to the server just using a URL.
It looks like an
HTTP URL except it says RTSP.
Server will go out,
try to find that movie and then just
begin streaming it to the server.
And as I mentioned,
these movies need to be hinted.
And what hinting does is it takes
a standard QuickTime movie and
it adds some additional track
for each track in the movie.
It adds an additional track and that
track basically contains information
that the server uses to determine
which blobs of media to put into which
packets and what time to send them out.
So one of the big advantages of that
is that it allows the server to be
completely agnostic about media formats.
That's why we're able to stream media
on a Linux server or a FreeBSD server
where QuickTime APIs don't exist
and the codecs don't exist.
Next configuration is live streaming,
which adds a couple of
pieces to the puzzle.
First, you need a camera or some
form of an input source.
And what you do is hook that camera
up to an encoder broadcaster machine.
And the job of the broadcaster or
the encoder is to obviously encode
the incoming stream and then to
packetize it into RTP format and
send it off to a server or a client.
So in this picture, though,
you'll see that it sends
it off to a server,
and there's a really
good reason for that.
You technically can send things
directly from the broadcaster,
but you can't send things
directly from the server.
So decoding and encoding
can take quite a bit of CPU,
and so it's really not a good
idea if you want to scale to
any more than a few clients.
So what happens in this case is that
the encoder encodes one stream and
broadcasts one stream to the server,
and then the server,
which has hardly any load on it
because it's not doing any encoding,
can broadcast out to
thousands of clients.
Simulated Live.
This is the playlist
broadcaster I just showed you.
And the way that works is kind of
a combination of live streaming,
not really, and video on demand.
And the way it works is you put your
hinted movie files onto the hard drive
of the server and you create a playlist,
which can be either a single movie
or unlimited number of movies.
And then there's a little tiny
process that runs for each playlist
on the server machine itself.
And it basically goes through
and parses those files,
reads the hint tracks,
and then streams those things in local
loopback to the streaming server,
which then broadcasts that
out to all of your clients.
So what this looks like from a
client perspective is a live feed,
even though it's really not.
They're not going to be able to
thumb back and forth in the movie.
They're all going to see the
same thing at the same time.
And it's really useful for doing
things like delayed broadcasts.
Let's say you've got an
event that you pre-recorded.
You can drop that on the server,
create a playlist with
that individual file in it,
start it up at whatever
time you want to start it,
and then everybody can tune in.
And then as I mentioned,
it's also really good for creating
things like internet radio stations.
If you go to -- actually go up
to Apple's QuickTime TV site
and look at Warner Records,
for example.
They've actually created kind of a
mini-MTV using the playlist broadcaster.
It just shows video after
video throughout the day.
and more complex,
and probably doesn't affect most of you,
but it can certainly affect some of you,
is a configuration we
call relay streaming.
And relay streaming is used
for live or simulated live,
and it's used for
allowing you to do events that are much
bigger than what one server can handle.
So basically we've added just another
layer between the server connected
to the encoder and the client.
So you've got the live stream
coming into your relay server,
and instead of that server
broadcasting out to clients,
it broadcasts out to other servers,
which means that you can have,
instead of one machine doing 3,000,
you could have maybe 10 machines
doing 30,000 concurrent streams.
So it allows you to do
really large events.
This is effectively what companies
like Akamai and Digital Island are
doing for their live events.
I don't think they're using our code,
but they've got something that
looks really similar to this.
So I'm going to go over kind
of the three major protocols
we use really briefly here.
First one is RTSP, and it stands for
Real Time Streaming Protocol.
The second one is RTP,
and Real Time Streaming Protocol actually
is kind of the control mechanism
from the client to the server.
It lets the client tell
the server what to do.
Real Time Transport Protocol is
the protocol that the
media is actually sent on,
and that operates under UDP typically.
It can be on TCP.
We do both actually with HTTP tunneling.
And RTCP is Real Time Control Protocol.
It's actually used by the – the
way it works is that the client
uses that protocol to tell the
server how things are going.
Is it losing packets?
Is there network jitter happening?
Things like that.
And I've got a little
picture here that'll –
RTSP is based on HTTP.
It actually looks almost identical.
The difference is that
instead of HTTP in the header,
it'll say RTSP.
And instead of methods like GET and PUT,
it'll have methods like PLAY and
PAUSE and DESCRIBE and SETUP.
RTP runs on a different port.
RTSP typically is on port 554.
RTP happens on a different
port from the server.
And that's the stream that the
media actually gets streamed on.
RTP is basically the
way the packets look.
It's pretty simple.
It's just got a little header on
the top of the packet that is in
RTP format and then a blob of media.
The client knows how to decode that
media once it gets it or de-packetize it.
RTCP, as I mentioned,
is a status channel from the
client back to the server.
And that's what the server actually
uses that for doing all of the
quality of service features that
I talked about with skip protection.
That's how we get notified that
packets are getting lost and
which packets are getting lost.
Whoops.
Here's an example session.
I think you guys can read that.
So I'm going to walk through what
happens when somebody presses
the play button on a movie.
So the first thing that happens
is the client will send an
RTSP describe request to the server.
That contains just a URL, basically.
And the URL looks a lot like an HTTP URL.
It will have the server name, slash,
and then a path to the movie.
And the server responds
to a describe request with
information about that movie.
And the information that it responds with
are things like the number of tracks,
what types of media
each of the tracks are,
maybe the bit rate of each track,
the language of the tracks,
things like that.
So once the client's
got that information,
it can then make a decision
about which tracks it actually
would like to listen to.
For example,
you might have a movie that's
got a single video track
and three language tracks,
Spanish, English, and French.
The client will then send a setup
request for each of the tracks that
it actually wants to listen to.
So in this case, it's going to say,
"I'm going to send back a setup for the
video track and a setup for one of the
audio tracks that it would like to hear."
server will respond with
OKs to both of those.
And then the client sends a play
request which tells the server,
OK, now start streaming me the things
that I asked you to set up.
At that point,
media just gets sent out over RTP.
Everybody's happy.
Nothing more happens until the stream
either ends or the client sends
either a teardown request if the
movie wants to be completely shut down
or somebody presses the pause button
and they just want to pause the movie.
[Transcript missing]
There are a lot of ways to
extend the streaming server.
I think it's pretty clear that
the QuickTime streaming server
is easily the most extensible
streaming server in the world.
There are other servers out there
that are not typically extensible
other than maybe some module APIs.
We have a lot of ways to extend.
The most obvious way is that the
source code is all available.
You can take the source code and
do whatever you want with it.
We have source for the server.
We also have a proxy server
that we have source for.
All of the source code is available
for the admin that we added for 3.0.
The only issue here is that
Apple's got a license we call
the Apple Public Source License.
What that license says is if you're going
to make modifications to the core code of
products that are open sourced by Apple,
we just ask that you send it to us.
We send those changes back so
that we can share them with the
rest of the open source community.
Other than that,
you're free to do whatever you'd like.
And a lot of times you might make
changes that have no meaning to us,
and we're not going to
roll that into the server,
but you still need to post
that so the public can see it.
There's a way to get around that
with the streaming server though.
Because we recognize that there are
companies that are going to want to
build things that have some really
strong intellectual property value
or are just proprietary and they
don't want other people to see it.
The way to do that is to build a
module that attaches into the server.
And the reason it doesn't fall
under the APSL is that you're not
modifying any of our source code,
you're actually just writing brand
new source code that belongs to you.
The plugin API that we use for these is
really similar to the Apache plugin API,
if you're aware of that.
It uses concept of roles and callbacks
during different states in the server.
There are two ways to build modules.
You can build them as dynamic modules.
And those are basically standalone
little shared libraries that
you drop into a directory.
The server auto-discovers those,
asks them to register for their roles,
and away they go.
Or you can compile the module
directly into the server.
And then it just becomes a module.
It becomes a part of the
single server binary.
And in fact, most of the server features
are implemented as modules.
So things like the ability to
reflect live streams as a module,
error logging, access logging,
authentication, the module that lets the
web-based admin work,
those are all done as modules that
are just built into the server.
We think we did a really good job
of making sure that that API or
that architecture was really high
performance because we use it.
This session covers the latest
features of Version 3.0 of
the Darwin Streaming Server.
Chris LeCroy
is basically a way to get and
set attributes in the server
using simple HTTP requests.
And the requests will basically
have a URL to the server,
and then maybe some parameters at
the end that tell the admin module
whether you want to get a value,
set a value, delete a value,
things like that.
And this is what the web-based
admin uses this primarily.
So the things that can
be built around this are,
like, I'd like to see somebody write some
really cool monitoring applications.
They don't have to be written
in Perl or anything like that.
They can be written in any language
because it is just straight HTTP.
Maybe some advanced configuration or
advanced administration applications,
things like that.
The kind of last way to extend the
server I want to talk about is...
[Transcript missing]
There are a couple of really
good reasons for doing this.
First one might be that maybe
you don't like our admin.
Maybe you want to repurpose it for your
corporation or you want to repurpose
it and sell a product to somebody.
You can just take the
existing admin and modify it.
Probably a more common reason to extend
it would be that you write a module
for the server and you want to have
some user interface for your module.
So what you can do is just create
some HTML files with the special tags,
possibly write a Perl CGI,
drop it into a directory and it
will automatically appear in the
user interface along with all
of the UI that we've written.
It basically becomes a first
class citizen in the admin.
It might show up as an additional tab
in our admin or something like that.
Yeah.
and all of these ways
of extending the server.
There's a session
immediately following this,
and we'll have some streaming
server engineers up to show you
how to do each of these extensions.
See a little bit more of the web admin
and a little bit about the API as well
as how the admin protocol can work.
So, development opportunities.
So we don't have...
A gigantic team at Apple working
on the streaming server.
So we can only do so much.
We think we've done a really
great reference server.
We think it's a really
high-performance server.
But there are, like,
hundreds of features that we're just
never going to be able to get to because
we don't have enough people to do it.
We do have, on the other hand,
500 Darwin developers that are
building things around this thing.
So we really want to get developers
out there building things around this,
possibly building the server and
repurposing it as your own product.
We actually really promote that.
As long as you follow the
Apple public software license,
there's actually absolutely
no issue with doing that.
[Transcript missing]
You can take the server,
port it over to your device,
and then you can go
There are also a bunch of
plug-ins we'd like to see written.
So we have some really basic
authentication in the server.
I'd like to see a module that
does some authentication with a
stronger back-end authority maybe
or with a database of user accounts.
It's also possible to write modules
that use a database as the means
of storage for all of your content.
I think that's kind of a vertical market,
but there's definitely an
opportunity to do that.
And I think that's a
great way to do that.
And of course you can do additional
logging and reporting modules.
And maybe a cool feature would be,
or a cool product would be to
kind of build an entire broadcast
system for internet broadcasting,
similar to what TV stations use.
They've got software that manages all of
the scheduling and which content to serve
and add-in solution and things like that.
And it might be interesting to see
somebody write some modules into
the server that do that and kind
of go after that vertical market.
And as I mentioned,
monitoring tools via the admin protocol.
Admin protocol's new,
so I hope to see a bunch
of those coming out.
And of course web-based
administration extensions,
possibly.
Do a web-based admin that's
purposed for some corporation
and sell it into the corporation,
things like that.
So our future directions
are actually pretty simple.
We plan to continue working towards
standards and to support standards.
We actually work with the IETF to
extend the protocols when we think
that they've got some limitations.
A good example of that is that we
recently proposed an internet draft
to the IETF that makes it possible to
write streaming caching servers that
work much better with streaming media.
Nobody else has done this,
and it was something that
was desperately needed.
Basically the streaming caches
were at the mercy of the network.
They didn't have any information coming
to them about packets that were being
sent to them or ways to get the media
sent to them in a reliable fashion.
And so we worked on an extension
with the IETF to do that.
As I mentioned,
Apple is also a founding member of
the Internet Streaming Media Alliance,
which is basically an MPEG-4 alliance,
and we are big on making sure that MPEG-4
works with all of the different vendors,
and I think you're going to
see a lot of MPEG-4 coming out
of Apple over the next year.
And of course we plan to
continuously improve quality
and of course performance.
Sometimes we get lucky,
we get a really fast machine
and that helps us automatically,
but we're continually looking at
the software and looking for ways
to make the software perform better.
And of course we'll always be
looking at adding new features
and looking for other leading edge
technologies to add into the server.
So there are a few places that
you can go to get more information
about the streaming server.
The first place,
or maybe the second place or third place,
I'm not sure, depends on you,
but we have a mailing
list for developers.
And that list is actually
a really high quality list.
I've gone on a lot of mailing lists,
some of them are not high quality.
This one is good.
The traffic is probably
between 5 to 20 messages a day.
They're all very focused and
very development related.
It's a great way to have contact with the
engineers because all of the engineers
and some of the marketing people are
actually on this mailing list and
monitoring and replying to questions.
The best way to get to it is to just go
to lists.apple.com and search for the
word "stream." You'll find the developers
list and you'll also see a users list,
which is interesting too if you want
to find out what users are doing or if
you want to become a user and figure
out how to use the server better.
All of the open source information,
the Darwin versions of the server,
are all available on Apple's open source
website at www.opensource.apple.com.
and for things that are more client
related or authoring related,
you should go to Apple's
developer site for QuickTime.
That's developer.apple.com/quicktime.
Even though you may not ever
write any networking code,
it's actually a good idea to understand
what the protocols do and how they work.
And so go to the IETF site and check out
the RFCs for the major protocols we use.
RTSP is 2326, RTP is RFC 1889,
and SDP is 1998.
And here are the sessions that
are remaining at WWDC that are
related to the streaming server.
So immediately following
this session in this room,
you don't even have to
get out of your chairs,
is a session on how to customize
and extend the streaming server.
And we'll have some streaming
server engineers up for that.
There's a feedback forum
tonight at 3:30 in room J1.
And that's going to be -- that feedback
forum is actually intended for both
QuickTime client and server issues.
It's just kind of an uber
QuickTime feedback forum.
[Transcript missing]
If you need to contact anybody
with developer related questions,
you should contact Jeff Lowe.
He's the QuickTime Technology Manager for
Apple Worldwide Developer Relations.
His email is jefflowe@apple.com.
He also handles both
QuickTime server and client.